There's five levels of prompting you
need to master AI video and 99% of
people are stuck at level one or two.
And here's the thing, each new level
unlocks incredible possibilities for the
type of content you can create and gives
you way more control over the AI videos
than what you probably think is possible
right now. So, today I'm breaking down
every level of prompting you need to go
from the complete beginner to a seasoned
pro. This might be the most valuable AI
guide I ever make. The first level of
prompting is simply describing the idea
you have. This is what most people do
when they first start making AI video.
So, for example, I've got some pictures
of myself and let's say I wanted to
generate a video with a huge fluffy dog
behind me coming outside the door. In
the prompt, I would just intuitively
describe what I want to happen. The
closet door behind the man opens and a
giant furry fluffy light blue dog crawls
out. At this level, you're just
describing the raw intent behind what
you want to happen. You don't have any
structure to your prompt, you don't have
any special techniques. You're just
telling the AI model in the most simple
way exactly what you want to happen.
Just because these prompts are super
simple and basic doesn't mean that the
quality of the video is going to be any
lower. In fact, the actual quality of
the video itself will roughly be the
same regardless of how complicated your
prompt is. Here are some examples from
the new seed dance model where these
videos were all generated using simple
idea prompts that are only one or two
sentences long. A massive cracking
attacks a pirate ship. The captain
slices it with his sword. Hyperrealistic
cinematic movie scene. And that's really
all you need to generate a super high
quality looking video. Here's a video
created with an even simpler one
sentence prompt. A nature documentary
about an otter flying an airplane.
This is the incredible story of the
pilot otter. So, if we can make a super
high quality video using just a super
simple prompt. What's the point of this
tutorial? Well, it's not just about
creating the high quality visuals inside
the video. It's about controlling what's
happening exactly the way you want. Even
though a level one of prompt and you can
make some really good looking stuff, the
main issue you're going to run into is
inconsistency between different video
generations where you feel like you need
to generate over and over and over again
until you finally get a video clip
that's worth using. Level two is
structured prompting. Instead of just
intrudely writing down the raw idea for
your video, you can instead use a
structured prompt formula and fit your
idea into that structure. Now, there's a
ton of different variations and guides
like this on the internet. These are
just structured formulas for writing
prompts that have been proven to work.
The key components of these prompts stay
the same. First is the subject, the
environment, and the action that they're
taking. These are all different
variations of subjects, environments,
and actions.
The next key component of these
cinematic prompts is the camera shot and
camera movement. Camera shot defines how
the subject is framed, like a close-up
for emotion or a wide shot for
environment. Camera motion defines how
the camera moves, like a tracking shot
or a slow push in.
Together, they turn a basic idea into
something that feels cinematic.
The third component of the cinematic
prompt structure, the visual style.
Visual style defines the overall look
such as realistic, anime, or 3D Pixar
shaping how the final video feels.
So, here's an example prompt with this
cinematic style structure. A 1980 cinema
grainy film, which is the visual style,
a medium shot, which is the camera
framing, of a tired office worker in
Japan standing on an empty subway
platform loosening his tie as a train
approaches in the distance, flickering
tunnel lights and an analog
advertisement board glows faintly green.
Another common structured prompt that
you're going to run into is the JSON
prompt. So, a JSON file is just a simple
text format that's easier for code bases
to read and write. So, here's an example
of what a JSON prompt would look like.
I have my keywords, which are the
subject, the action, the environment,
camera, etc. And also a value assigned
to each of the keywords. And so, in this
case, the subject is a lost hiker, the
action is struggling to walk through
deep snow, and the environment is a
blizzard in a frozen mountain range.
But, the most useful thing about these
JSON prompts is that it's super easy to
organize and swap out different
keywords, especially if you're working
with multiple people with all the
keywords in neatly laid out.
The results that you get when using a
JSON prompt are the same as using a
regular prompt, as long as the
information that you include in both of
them are the same. So, here's a few
different comparisons of videos I have
where I generated them using a JSON
prompt and one where I didn't use a JSON
prompt format, but I included all the
same keywords and information inside the
prompt, and the results are pretty much
the same, and I found this to be true
across tons of different tests. So, the
moral of the story is the JSON prompt, a
great way to organize and structure your
prompts, it makes it super easy to work
with huge databases of prompts, but it's
not a magic pill that's going to
suddenly create amazingly AI videos.
Another super important structured
prompt you need to know is the
multi-shot prompt, which is a single
prompt that defines multiple sequential
your
each with its own camera angle, action,
and timing to create a full continuous
scene. Here's an example of a really
impressive cinematic sequence generated
using a multi-shot prompt. Inside the
prompt for this multi-shot sequence, the
different cuts are clearly defined with
a different camera shot and movement,
and also exactly what's happening inside
of each cut.
>> [music]
[music]
[crying]
>> When you write prompts that have these
structured templates, you'll find
yourself having way more control over
exactly what's inside the videos. The
third level of prompting is reference
control. So far in the first two levels,
we've been describing with our words
what we want to happen inside the AI
video, and using that, you can get
really far. But at level three, instead
of just describing with your words, you
directly shown the AI video with
reference material exactly how you want
your videos to be created. So
previously, we've seen a basic version
of this where I used an image of myself,
and then prompted for a huge fluffy blue
dog behind me. In this case, the
reference is controlling what my
appearance is going to be. But we can
use way more than just a single image to
guide the AI video. In this example, two
reference images of a character and
scene were used. The first one with the
main character holding a dagger, and the
second image it shows her and all the
defeated assailants on the ground. And
these two images were combined as part
of the prompt. The AI video was told to
generate a sequence of the woman
fighting the assassins with different
shot composition and perspectives thrown
in there. And the result is an extremely
dynamic fight scene all while preserving
the consistency of the appearance of the
woman. Beyond just image references, we
can now also use video references, audio
references, and of course text
descriptions to guide the video
generation process. Here's an example
for an exciting AI generated fight scene
between two characters. And to create
this video, a bunch of different
references were used. First is the
appearance of the each individual
characters,
also a video reference of the
choreography of the fight scene where
two actors are acting out the movements,
and finally another video of this flower
pot that has this orbiting camera
motion.
And all of these references are
combining side the same prompt, which
tells it to use the character movements
in the first video, use the camera
movement in video two, and a fight scene
between character one and character two
is generated.
And this gives you such a high level of
control over the direction of the AI
videos.
The best version of the technology is in
the new SeaArt 2.0 video model, which is
reported to be globally released at the
end of February. So, subscribe if you
want to see more in-depth guides for
that. Level four is leverage and
scaling. So, you've experimented a bit
and you've come up with a few different
templates or structures for prompts that
have worked really well. Now, you can
use an AI to actually speed up that
prompt writing process by teaching the
AI how to write prompts the way you
want. Here's a custom GPT I have which
specifically writes prompts for
different AI video generators. So, I've
uploaded four shots of a character, and
I code the GPT to write prompts for
Kling AI for each of these scenes, and
they should be connected together and
tell a narrative of a woman in a
dystopian futuristic city. And my AI
video GPT will write prompts
specifically geared towards Kling AI
fits the narrative I'm trying to tell.
I can also tell it to write a multi-shot
scene that starts with her riding on a
motorcycle and ends with that close-up
shot on her face. And I can take the
multi-shot prompted that my GPT
generates and plug it straight into my
AI video generator to create the video.
So, if you don't have a structured
prompt right now or a structured formula
to writing prompts, don't worry, you can
still create your own prompt GPTs. When
new AI video models are released,
typically the company behind these AI
video models will also release their own
prompt guide geared towards their AI
video generator. And here's one for the
Kling AI video model. To create my GPT,
which will let me use AI to write my
prompts, what I did is I took the
information inside the prompt guide from
Kling AI. And I put a summary of it
inside this PDF document that has all
the different prompt structures, some
tips on how to write the prompts, also
what types of actions to avoid prompting
for. Because these AI video generators
do have their own limitations. Most AI
video companies aren't going to tell you
what it's bad at. Typically, they'll
just over exaggerate how good the AI
model is. So, you might need to also
putting a section yourself after testing
the AI video generator a bit about with
all the different things that the video
generator is bad at and the prompt
should avoid trying to create. With this
PDF document, I can now create my own
GPT. So, inside ChatGPT, go to explore
GPTs, and then create a new GPT.
And inside the configuration, you can
upload your different PDF guides, which
will instruct the GPT on how to write
prompts correctly. And you'll also need
to give it some instructions. For this
part, it works fine to just use natural
language to describe how you want the
GPT to use your PDF guides. So, using
GPTs like this to help write your AI
prompts can speed up your process
significantly. However, the AI isn't
always going to get it right. You will
need to go in there and make some minor
changes. Level five of prompting is
having a full pipeline for the AI video
generation process. At this level,
you'll be using multiple different
tools, different platforms to try and
generate the exact AI video you want.
There's no perfect prompt that's going
to work for all of them. In some cases,
if you need something really simple, and
sometimes you need a prompt that's more
structured. The important part is
knowing what you need for the task at
hand. So, let's say I just wanted to see
what it would look like if I put these
two characters inside a scene together,
just as an experimental test. So, I
first I'm going to use this custom GPT I
have, which specifically writes prompts
that creates 3x3 storyboard grids. So,
I've uploaded these two images of my
characters, and I told it to create a
3x3 storyboard grid for these
characters. The narrative is that the
male cyber hunter is tracking down the
female psychic in a dystopian futuristic
London. And so, the GPT is going to give
me back this prompt for 3x3 storyboard
grid with each individual shot in the
3x3 grid. Here's the 3x3 grid that I
generated using the prompt. Then, I went
back to my AI video prompt to GPT, told
it to write a prompt for Kling AI to
make a short 15-second story out of this
where the male cyborg is hunting down
the female psychic using multi-shot
prompted. This is just a simple test to
see what it would look like if my
characters were in the same scene
together. And so, here is that
multi-shot prompt that my GPT created
for me specifically targeted towards
Kling AI. In in the video, I can see
what it looks like if my two characters
were in this scene together confronting
each other.
For other situations, if you really
wanted to have control over the AI
videos that are produced, you'll need to
use it even wider variety of different
prompts. So, here's a 3x3 storyboard
grid I generated for this dialogue scene
between the two characters. They're
stranded in the desert and arguing with
each other. In this case, I needed a
wider variety of shots and use more
tools inside the pipeline. And what I'm
going to do is animate each of these
individual frames by itself. In some
cases, I just needed a very simple
animation. And so, I just used an idea
prompt directly describing what I wanted
in one or two sentences. For other
shots, I wanted to create a multi-shot
sequence. So, in this case, I used a
structured multi-shot prompt that's
going to create multiple shots in this
sequence out of a single frame.
Next up, I needed to generate the
dialogue for my characters. So, I used
this tool called 11 Labs, which
generates custom AI voices and dialogue.
Using this voice creation tool, I
prompted for voices of my custom
characters, this time using a structured
voice prompt that describes a
character's gender, their
accents, also the tonality and the
emotion that's inside their voice. And
then I made the AI dialogue using
text-to-speech, where in the prompt I
put in the dialogue I want the
characters to say, but also these
descriptors inside the purple brackets,
which give more instruction to the AI in
terms of the emotion and the tonality of
how exactly the dialogue needs to be
delivered. And finally, I used this AI
lip-syncing tool called Creatiffai
Aurora inside Eleven Labs, which lets me
combine shots of my characters and also
the AI dialogue I generated. And in the
prompt for the lip-sync, I used very,
very simple idea prompts, because I know
that when you're creating AI lip-sync,
if you add too much action or movement
into the prompts, the AI is not going to
give you good results. And here's a
short clip of what my AI dialogue scene
looks like. I've checked the fuel, the
lines, the battery.
There's nothing left to try.
It's not going to start. You said the
same thing yesterday. You said we were
done, and then it started again.
>> want to dive even deeper into AI video
generation, go watch this tutorial here
where I covered the five different
levels of AI video creation. I'll take
you from a beginner to using advanced AI
video workflows.